README.md, before:

# jenkins-in-jenkins
Start a Jenkins server from within itself using Docker.

<img src="jenkins-recursive.png" alt="Jenkins in Jenkins logo"/>

Have you ever heard of running Docker within Docker?
Now, imagine you have a Jenkins container which can run Docker, would that image be able to start itself?

<img src="jenkins-recursive-diagram.png" alt="Jenkins and Docker nested layers diagram"/>

This image includes a Jenkins server with Docker installed.
Jenkins comes pre-configured with job called 'start-new-jenkins'. Run this job to start another identical instance of Jenkins on the host. The process can be repeated recursively. To prevent reusing the same TCP port, the port is incremented at each run.

# Usage

```
docker run -p 8080:8080 -e JENKINS_PORT=8080 --rm -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --name jenkins remydewolf/jenkins-in-jenkins
```

# How does it work?

The Dockerfile extends Jenkins official image and installs docker from the Debian repo. When starting the container, the volume '/var/run/docker.sock' is mounted from the host to the container. Every time a Jenkins instance is started, the container is actually started on the host.

<img src="jenkins-host-diagram.png" alt="Jenkins Docker containers from the host perspective"/>

# Resources
- [Docker in Docker! Official Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker/)
- [About /var/run/docker.sock](https://medium.com/lucjuggery/about-var-run-docker-sock-3bfd276e12fd)
- [Jenkins Docker in Docker (DinD) ](https://tripdubroot.com/jenkins-docker-in-docker-dind-2040cc90eeab)

Commit message:

Add links to medium and docker hub

README.md, after:

# jenkins-in-jenkins
Start a Jenkins server from within itself using Docker.

<img src="jenkins-recursive.png" alt="Jenkins in Jenkins logo"/>

Have you ever heard of running Docker within Docker?
Now, imagine you have a Jenkins container which can run Docker, would that image be able to start itself?

<img src="jenkins-recursive-diagram.png" alt="Jenkins and Docker nested layers diagram"/>

This image includes a Jenkins server with Docker installed.
Jenkins comes pre-configured with job called 'start-new-jenkins'. Run this job to start another identical instance of Jenkins on the host. The process can be repeated recursively. To prevent reusing the same TCP port, the port is incremented at each run.

# Usage

```
docker run -p 8080:8080 -e JENKINS_PORT=8080 --rm -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --name jenkins remydewolf/jenkins-in-jenkins
```

# How does it work?

The Dockerfile extends Jenkins official image and installs docker from the Debian repo. When starting the container, the volume '/var/run/docker.sock' is mounted from the host to the container. Every time a Jenkins instance is started, the container is actually started on the host.

<img src="jenkins-host-diagram.png" alt="Jenkins Docker containers from the host perspective"/>

# Resources
- [Experiment: Start Jenkins servers recursively with Docker](https://medium.com/@remy.dewolf/experiment-start-jenkins-servers-recursively-with-docker-f16984a94284)
- [jenkins-in-jenkins Docker Hub repository](https://hub.docker.com/r/remydewolf/jenkins-in-jenkins/)
- [Docker in Docker! Official Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker/)
- [About /var/run/docker.sock](https://medium.com/lucjuggery/about-var-run-docker-sock-3bfd276e12fd)
- [Jenkins Docker in Docker (DinD) ](https://tripdubroot.com/jenkins-docker-in-docker-dind-2040cc90eeab)
